jerry crew had been working for the
wallace brothers logging company for two
years
and this was a perfectly normal day for
him it was august 1958 in northern
california
jerry came to the construction site
where about 30 other crew members were
already on the job
he parked his car changed his shoes and
got ready for a busy day
as he was walking toward his bulldozer
he noticed strange footprints on the
ground
he didn't pay them any special attention
there was work to do
but when he climbed up on the bulldozer
his whole face was molded by surprise
confusion
and fear jerry could see these tracks
fully
and realize that something massive lives
in these woods
they weren't mountain lions or bear
tracks these footprints looked exactly
like human ones
only they were about 16 inches long
crew assumed this must be some kind of
joke and decided to ask his boss
wilbur wallace about it crew was worried
and emotional
and he spoke pretty loudly so the other
workers overheard their conversation
soon a crowd gathered around jerry and
wilbur
they were brave men who couldn't be
scared of anything
and they couldn't believe what they were
hearing but crew wasn't lying
and the whole crowd saw these traces of
an unknown creature
the workers realized they weren't the
only ones in this forest
it turned out that crew wasn't the first
person to find such footprints
chatter immediately sprung up other men
there said
they had already heard such rumors giant
humanoid footprints were recently found
on another wallace job site
similar tracks were found in trinidad
the workers looked at each other in
bewilderment as they listened to these
accounts
that's when wallace took the floor and
said he knew something about it
whatever creature made these footprints
it could be responsible for other
misdeeds
the crew listened in silence as he
described an incident that had taken
place
last summer one of the work sites had a
large barrel of diesel fuel
one day it just disappeared leaving only
an imprint on the ground
the worst thing is that there were these
huge traces nearby
the workers end up finding the barrel it
had been thrown down a hill
wallace clarified that the barrel was
definitely thrown
not rolled because the foliage on the
slope wasn't broken or flattened
a human couldn't have done it the barrel
weighed almost a half a time
then he remembered another strange
incident
workers found a 700 pound spare tire in
a ditch
wallace assumed it was vandals just
messing with them
but now he was sure this unknown
creature with huge feet
was responsible for all these pranks he
told everyone to get back to work
but all the men could think about was
this mysterious monster
they called it bigfoot and it quickly
became a local legend
for a long time there were more and more
stories involving this giant forest
dweller
four dogs went missing bigfoot was the
prime suspect in the case
people were afraid to walk deep into the
woods they didn't leave their homes late
at night some men even started carrying
weapons to defend themselves
a beast that can throw massive barrels
and tires is
obviously dangerous then journalists
took an interest in these stories
but it turned out that most of them
weren't real
these grim tales originated from local
loggers and hunters
who liked to scare newcomers they talked
about giant mosquitoes that could drink
a cow like a juice bag
another hunter said he caught a hodak a
bizarre looking beast with huge fangs
claws and spikes running down its back
obviously it was all fiction but then
something happened that changed
everyone's mind
in mid-september workers found fresh
traces near their
job site this time they wanted to sort
it out and
finally find bigfoot they invited expert
taxidermists to identify these
footprints
and make plaster casts the story soon
appeared in the humboldt times
and then in other major newspapers in no
time at all
bigfoot went from being a local legend
to a popular celebrity
the forests of northern california
became a popular destination for
investigative journalism
soon even a picture of jerry crew with
his find
appeared in the newspaper there were
dozens of versions describing bigfoot
some claimed it was a humanoid ape
others said it was a hairy giant
almost 10 feet tall a few eyewitnesses
described smelling a strong and
unpleasant odor when they saw it
even the scientific community got in on
this they were theorizing that bigfoot
was an unknown link in evolution between
apes and humans then came the famous
roger patterson and bob grimlin footage
of 1967.
on october 20th the two men were riding
horses along a river
in bluff creek when they noticed a
strange figure behind an abandoned house
the creature was squatting on the other
bank of the river
both men were stunned when they saw it
as you would bid
patterson's horse also got scared and
reared up
he had to calm her down before grabbing
the camera and running toward the
creature
bigfoot as everyone's assumed this is by
now
started to run away from them but first
turned to the men
and gave them what they described as a
look of contempt and disgust
then the creature was gone but patterson
wouldn't give up so easily
he ran to another spot where he could
film the monster
once again this giant being ran away and
disappeared about 260 feet off in the
distance
as fate would have it the camera ran out
of film
and that was the end of the 59 second
clip the whole encounter lasted roughly
two minutes patterson and gimlin tried
to track the creature for several miles
but eventually lost the trail they
guessed its height to be about seven
feet its fur was dark red brown and
black
but the film raises too many questions
and critics immediately started finding
inconsistencies first of all patterson
and gimlin changed their statements
about bigfoot's height
besides they were the only witnesses
nobody
else could verify any of this some
critics even talk about a connection
between the wallace brothers and these
filmmakers
but patterson stood by the authenticity
of the footage
until his last breath but 44 years later
the truth of the bigfoot mystery was
finally revealed
wilbur and his brother ray along with
her nephew had orchestrated the whole
thing
the stories the evidence the tracks
everything was the wallace brothers
doing
they used a large wood carved foot to
create the prints
they deliberately left them in places
where superstitious
loggers could easily find them they were
also responsible for bigfoot's other
pranks
like the fuel barrel and the giant tire
being moved
but they didn't stop there they'd also
scattered samples of bigfoot's hair
throughout
the forest for researchers to find well
that was actually bison here
taken from the family farm in toledo
although
not all members of the wallace family
confirm they were involved in it
many people believe the brothers also
had something to do
with the bluff creek siding and filming
as well
and we still don't know that till this
very day